---
layout: default
title: Our Vision
permalink: /vision/
---

<h1>Our Vision</h1>
<p>3350 FM will be designed as a collaborative music cataloguing mobile application, providing users a platform to connect with others through the organization, critique, and discovery of music.
Users of 3350 FM will be able to manage personalized music libraries which can include songs from any albums available on our platform. Users will be able to manage their libraries by adding and removing existing songs from a library and are given the option to apply filters to sort their libraries by various aggregations such as song length, artist, etc. Users will need to register for the 3350 FM service by creating an account which consists of a username and password.<p>
<p>Our service will provide music critiquing through a rating and review system designed to help users decide which music to listen to next. Users will be given the option to rate a song or album out of five stars, and may optionally choose to write a short-form review less than 30 words discussing why they chose to give the rating, which allows users to provide a quick, but meaningful justification for their reasoning.
Users will be able to connect with other users of the 3350 FM service to foster a sense of community by exploring other user’s libraries, ratings, and reviews. Users will be able to find music in genres tailored to them through a recommendation system that will identify new music based on personal libraries and user connections.  Users will also be permitted to view other users’ music ratings and reviews to discover new opinions and develop music tastes.<p>
<p>3350 FM's core audience will be music enthusiasts from all facets of the music world. Whether you enjoy listening to rock, k-pop, jazz, or country, 3350 FM will host a platform for music connoisseurs who want to express their love for music with other like-minded listeners. It’s perfect for friends who want to connect through music and share their favourite songs or albums, and for enthusiasts wanting to discover music similar to their own tastes, or looking to expand their music taste to new genres.<p>
<p>3350 FM brings a sense of community to the music scene that platforms such as Spotfiy and Apple Music sacrifice in favour of music streaming. We understand that these platforms have excelled in music streaming, and as such, believe that the value of our application comes from the enhanced social aspects of music rather than simply being another music streaming service. Think Letterboxd or Goodreads, but for music. 3350 FM aims to combat the scarcity of music cataloguing mobile applications that prioritize social aspects such as rating and reviewing music, viewing other user’s reviews, and receiving recommendations for new music based on the connections you make with other users.<p>
<p>The 3350 FM service will be considered successful if we are able to register 100,000 users in our user database, foster 500,000 total user connections, and log 1,000,000 music ratings or reviews by the end of 2024’s final fiscal year. This will ensure our service can stay competitive alongside similar cataloguing platforms such as Letterboxd and Goodreads.<p>
